protocol threat modelling for prow (#119)
kyma-project/community: sig-and-wg/wg-prow/threat-modelling.md

> # About

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Threat Modeling
```

Reviewer: US spelling. Same for the doc name.

> Here the results of the first threat modelling are documented.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document presents the results of the threat modeling sessions.
```

> The treat modelling was done in October 2018 in three sessions with Suleyman Akbas, Andreas Thaler and a representive of the kyma security team.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The threat modeling was done in October 2018 in three sessions with Suleyman Akbas, Andreas Thaler, and a representative of the Kyma security team.
```

> # What was done:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Discussed topics
```

> Bringing the different systems into one picture

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Bringing the different systems into one picture
```

> Discussed every communication channel

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Discussing every communication channel
```

> Identified the assets being worth to protect

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Identifying the assets that are worth protecting
```

> Identified the secrets in the game

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Identifying the required secrets
```

# Assumptions

> There is one prow cluster only. If there are more installations they need to be protected in a similar way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There is only one Prow cluster. If there are to be more installations, they need to be protected in a similar way.
```

> # Working picture

Reviewer: Pls add an introductory sentence: `The diagram presents an overview of the Prow architecture:`

Author: done

![Working Picture](assets/landscape.JPG)

# Findings

> - No blockers identified

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- No blockers were identified.
```

> - Dedicated cluster for job execution is recommended but not required for first setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A dedicated cluster for job execution is recommended but not required for the first setup.
```

> - Any external communication must be secured from the beginning, mainly the ingress for deck access and webhook call

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Any external communication must be secured from the beginning, mainly the Ingress for Deck access and webhook calls.
```

> - Secured internal communication is recommend but nor required for first setup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Secured internal communication is recommended but not required for the first setup.
```

> - Secret management is fine using KMS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Secret management is fine using KMS.
```

> - hmac token needs to be increased to 32 bytes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The `hmac` token needs to be increased to 32 bytes.
```

> - tokens should be rotated at least at offboarding of people -> offboarding checklist

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Tokens should be rotated at least at the stage of the offboarding. It is required to prepare the offboarding checklist.
```

> - Do not use a single technical service account for google cloud access, but introduce dedicated service accounts for the different scenarios

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Do not use a single technical service account for the Google Cloud access, but introduce dedicated service accounts for different scenarios.
```

> - There should be only few admin users mainly for operations, and no other roles or kind of access

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- There should be only a few admin users mainly for operations, and no other roles or any kind of other access.
```

> -- Requires that all configuration is done in source code triggering a provisioning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     - It requires that all configuration is done in the source code triggering the provisioning.
```

> -- No backup of configuration required by that and no access for developers needed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       - No backup of configuration is required by that and no access for developers is needed.
```

> -- Anyone not being admin is treated as anonymous

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       - Anyone who is not an admin is treated as an anonymous user.
```

> - Use dedicated google project to avoid access to prow resources for project owners not being in relation to the prow topic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Use a dedicated Google project to avoid access to Prow resources for project owners that are not related to the Prow topic.
```

> -- By default project owners have access to the prow cluster itself (can be avoided by proper RBAC setup)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - By default, the project owners have access to the Prow cluster itself. That can be avoided by the proper RBAC setup.
```

> -- Project owners will have access to the secrets in cloud storage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Project owners will have access to the Secrets in Google Cloud Storage.
```

> -- Project owners will have access to the build logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      - Project owners will have access to the build logs.
```

> -- Project owners will have access to the dynamicly created K8s clusters and VMs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       - Project owners will have access to the dynamically created K8s clusters and VMs.
```

> -- VMs might have network access to other VMs not related to the prow setup (if we are not using own project, we need to create VMs in dedicated network)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       - VMs might have network access to other VMs not related to the Prow setup. If we are not using own project, we need to create VMs in a dedicated network.
```

> - Enable audit logs on prow cluster with storage on google cloud storage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Enable audit logs on the Prow cluster with storage on Google Cloud Storage.
```

> - Assure that jobs have no access to API server

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Assure that jobs have no access to the API server.
```

> - Try to not inject any secrets to the jobs for example to avoid having them in logs. Use at least dedicated logic (plugin, script library of buildpack...) to process secrets so that risk of exposure gets lowered. Alternatively you could find a way to post-process the logs like it is done in jenkins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Try not to inject any Secrets to the jobs, for example, to avoid having them in logs. Use at least the dedicated logic (plugins, a script library, or a buildpack) to process Secrets so that risk of exposure can be lower. Alternatively, you could find a way to post-process the logs like it is done in Jenkins.
```

> - Dynamic cluster and VMs must be of temporary nature, assure cleanup of them even if related job gets killed unexpected for example by having periodic job running for cleanup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A dynamic cluster and VMs must be of the temporary nature. Make sure they are cleaned up, even if a related job gets killed unexpectedly. For example, you can have a periodic job running for the cleanup.
```

> - As Docker-in-docker gets used for the jobs, a cleanup is required for images/containers, assure cleanup of them even if related job gets killed unexpected for example by having periodic job running for cleanup

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- As Docker-in-Docker gets used for the jobs, a cleanup is required for images and containers. Make sure they are cleaned up, even if a related job gets killed unexpectedly. For example, you can have a periodic job running for the cleanup.
```

> - Assure that port exposure for a job pod is not supported to reduce attack vector

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Assure that the port exposure for a job Pod is not supported to reduce the attack vector.
```

> - Assure that used google service account have minimal privilieges

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Assure that the used Google service account has minimal privileges.
```
